---

date: 2009-02-24 17:20:16+00:00
draft: false
title: PDA….is ok!

url: /blog/pda-is-ok
categories:
- Rants, etc-
---

I want to preface this by saying that I did not write this with any particular person in mind. Some of you may think that I wrote this directly to you, and that’s not really the case. There have been so many instances in my life that have led up to me writing this, so to pin it on one person or instance would be both unfair and illogical. This is merely a statement of opinion, my opinion, and all comments and rebuttals and support is welcome. Know, however, that I am perfectly willing to defend this entire piece, so if you want to fight about it, bring it on :) (and I mean that in the nicest way)




So there are about a million articles and posts and junk everywhere from what I like to call anti-PDA fanatics, saying how gross PDA is, and fake barfing when people say lovey things about their significant other. I personally disagree with that on a very passionate level, and so I'm going to express the feelings of that very not dead portion of society known as "hopeless romantics".




Its funny to me how most of the argument of people who say PDA is gross and that they don't want to see it or hear it always use the fact that the couple is not respecting the rights of the observer, and this line is always used, "I don't want to see that!" The thing I find funny is that those people assume that the couple is kissing or being affectionate in public to aggravate them, and not to enjoy a romantic moment with each other. They try to defend their "right" to not have to look at that. Well I've got news for that argument....look somewhere else :)




The next group of anti-PDA people that I want to address are those inside a relationship that will not allow public affection in the relationship. I simply don't get it. Are they scared of the other anti-PDA-ers? Public opinion? I don't really understand what could hold any person in a relationship that truly likes their partner back from showing them how they really feel. If you do like someone, and you do want to kiss them, why not just kiss them? Why the games? Its counterproductive, if you ask me. If you really do consider yourself the luckiest person in the world to be with them, why not say it? Don't you want them to know how you feel?




Now, on the flipside, there is a point where it gets to be too much. You can't make all of your conversation be totally lovey dovey, and you can't be making out all the time in public, and definitely not too heavily. Moderation in all things, I say, but an occasional kiss or kind word is NOT bad. It's good. Even a passionate kiss at the appropriate moment in public is just fine, and is nothing to jeer at or be upset about. 




What happened to love being something that made people all warm and fuzzy? I know when I see a couple kissing in public, it honestly makes me all warm and fuzzy inside, and I think of the one that I love, and wish I could be with her right then. Love, and its expression, makes me happy. And isn't that what life is all about anyway? To learn to love, and then love? 
