---

date: 2010-05-09 17:58:28+00:00
draft: false
title: I Dare You

url: /blog/i-dare-you
categories:
- Jack Handy
- Rants, etc-
---

If you find yourself reading this post for whatever reason, I want you to know that I’m talking directly at you. This is a message for everyone collectively, but I am directing this more specifically at you. Don’t make the mistake of thinking that I’m referring to a specific person when I say that, because I am literally talking right at you. This is my challenge, in the form of a dare. Take it seriously, because I mean it that way:




I dare you to give up your sense of entitlement and realize that you don’t deserve anything.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your life and realize everything that you have.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining that things don’t work out perfectly for you every time.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your family.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your parents.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your spouse.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your kids.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about your job, or lack thereof.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining about school.




I dare you to stop whining and complaining. Period.




I dare you to accept that just because things don’t always go in your favor doesn’t make the system unfair.




I dare you to realize that you are wrong more than you’re right.




I dare you to not get defensive and prickly when someone points out that you could improve.




I dare you to accept the rules and regulations of any institution, be it educational, legal, legislative, religious, or anything else, as being simply the rules and regulations of that system, and just because you don’t agree or they aren’t perfectly convenient for you doesn’t make them wrong, corrupt, unjust, or worthy of hostilities.




I dare you to be happy instead of cynical.




I dare you to count your blessings instead of woe-is-me-ing all the time.




I dare you to be optimistic instead of realistic.




I dare you to be better instead of enough.




I dare you to be positive instead of blunt.




Most of all, I dare you to realize your own fallibility and tendency toward error, and accept it. Nobody is expected to be perfect because nobody is able to be perfect, including you. There are people who complain about their children, and there are people that are grateful that their children survived past infanthood, and still others who would give just about anything just to be able to have children. There are those who complain about some practices and policies of their place of education, and then there are the little old ladies in third world countries that have to work selling sunflower seeds and dried black beans on the side of the road because their government’s pension isn’t enough for a small dog to live off of who pay tithing so that person can attend an outstanding school for less than half of most in-state tuition is. 




Stop complaining.




Be grateful.




The end.
