---

date: 2010-03-23 17:56:01+00:00
draft: true
title: Remember

url: /blog/remember
categories:
- Jack Handy
- Pretty Things
- Random
---

To my friends, family, and most importantly, myself:




Remember that people who are driving slowly in front of you are actually driving more legally than you are.




Remember that the faults you see in others are usually the things that you need to work on most.




Remember that waiting to let a long line of people or cars go before you go just lets them get to where they’re going a little bit faster.




Remember that holding the door open for a long line of people just saves them the hassle of having to open it themselves.




Remember that people who talk incessantly about themselves aren’t very confidant and they are asking you to help them.




Remember that long lines are full of people just like you with reasons just like yours for why they’d like the line to be shorter.




Remember that all going out of your way to compliment or encourage someone does is make their day better.




Remember that rush-hour traffic is full of people just like you with reasons just like yours for why traffic should move faster.




Remember that being frustrated by something or someone doesn’t make you right.




Remember that taking offense when offence is not intended only makes you a fool.




Remember that taking offence when offence is intended only makes you a bigger fool.




Remember that today might be the last chance you have to say I love you.




Remember that you aren’t always right.




Remember humility.




Remember love.




Remember who you aren’t.




Remember who you are.
